Adding the Mail.ru case study and author data. (#6712)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/mailru-cwv/index.md

---
layout: post
title: Improving Core Web Vitals on the Mail.ru home page resulted in an average 10% increase in conversion rates
subhead: |

>   Several months of work to improve Core Web Vitals (CWV) metrics on the home page of Mail.ru resulted in a 60% increase in the 75th percentile in Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS), boosting average session time by 2.7% and conversion rates of core sections by more than 10%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Several months of work to improve Core Web Vitals metrics on the home page of Mail.ru resulted in a 60% increase in the 75th percentile in Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS), boosting average session time by 2.7% and conversion rates of core sections by more than 10%.
```

description: |

>   Several months of work to improve Core Web Vitals (CWV) metrics on the home page of Mail.ru resulted in a 60% increase in the 75th percentile in Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS), boosting average session time by 2.7% and conversion rates of core sections by more than 10%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Several months of work to improve Core Web Vitals on the home page of Mail.ru resulted in a 60% increase in the 75th percentile in Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS), boosting average session time by 2.7% and conversion rates of core sections by more than 10%.
```

authors:
  - dstasyev
  - svenmay

> date: 2021-11-15

Reviewer: Is this the intended launch date, or was this padded in case the review needed a lot of time? Either way, feel free to adjust prior to merge.

Author: Happy to adjust, but I do think 2021-11-15 is quite likely :-)

> hero: image/vgdbNJBYHma2o62ZqYmcnkq3j0o1/D3aV6VLiccC31BJIwo3z.jpg

Reviewer: Per @mihajlija, this should be changed to something relevant to the case study.

alt: Google Core Web Vitals + Mail.ru Home Page.

> thumbnail: image/vgdbNJBYHma2o62ZqYmcnkq3j0o1/CWMTBHzJ9UCpZ89fNcxJ.jpg

Reviewer: This image should be changed when the hero image is updated.

Author: Absolutely! These images are just "placeholders" for now. I am waiting for approved images from Mail.ru and once I have them, I will then update immediately.

tags:
  - blog
  - web-vitals
  - case-study
---

> {% Aside %}
>   This case study was authored by Denis Stasyev from the Mail.ru infrastructure team.
> {% endAside %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need this. Denis appears to be on the byline. If you're concerned that having you (Sven, I mean) as an author is an issue for any reason without this context, a good approach is to always throw in a final paragraph (usually italicized) that gives a special thanks/shoutout to other editors/contributors/etc.

 
## Where we started
 

> Mail.ru is one of the leading e-mail services on the Russian-speaking Internet and is [in the top 5 sites in Russia in terms of traffic](https://www.alexa.com/topsites/countries/RU). The Mail.ru home page is an important resource for a large number of people. It serves over several hundred million visits per month and is a portal from where people can access email, news, social media, performance internet searches and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mail.ru is one of the leading e-mail services on the Russian-speaking Internet and is [in the top 5 sites in Russia in terms of traffic](https://www.alexa.com/topsites/countries/RU). Mail.ru is an important resource for many people. It receives several hundred million visits per month, and is a portal from where people can access email, news, social media, performance internet searches and more.
```

Reviewer: Just doing a last minute copyedit, you'll see some of these around.

> Mail.ru wanted to provide its visitors with a high quality user experience, so work began to improve Core Web Vitals (CWV). Before discussing our optimization strategy, a few technical details of the Mail.ru home page should first be noted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mail.ru wanted to provide its visitors with a high quality user experience, so work began to improve Core Web Vitals. Before discussing our optimization strategy, a few technical details of the Mail.ru home page should first be noted.
```

> Mail.ru wanted to provide its visitors with a high quality user experience, so work began to improve CWV. Before discussing Mail.ru's CWV optimizations, some technical details of the Mail.ru home page should first be noted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mail.ru wanted to provide its visitors with a high quality user experience, so work began to improve Core Web Vitals (CWV). Before discussing our optimization strategy, a few technical details of the Mail.ru home page should first be noted.
```

{% Aside %}

> You can find out more about Fest and our reasons for changing the technology stack to Svelte in [our team's presentation](https://youtu.be/H2l3pK42f38?t=2913) at Svelte Russia Meetup #1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find out more about Fest and our reasons for changing the technology stack to Svelte in [our team's presentation](https://youtu.be/H2l3pK42f38?t=2913) at Svelte Russia Meetup \#1.
```

Reviewer: Probably good practice to escape a markdown character like this.

> Though the project had been developed using our in-house templating engine [Fest](https://github.com/mailru/fest) over a long time, switched to [Svelte 3](https://svelte.dev/) in 2019. You can find out more about Fest and the reasons for changing the technology stack to Svelte in [our team's presentation](https://youtu.be/H2l3pK42f38?t=2913) at Svelte Russia Meetup #1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though the project had long been developed using our in-house templating engine [Fest](https://github.com/mailru/fest), we began to migrate to [Svelte 3](https://svelte.dev/) in 2019.

{% Aside %}
You can find out more about Fest and our reasons for changing the technology stack to Svelte in [our team's presentation](https://youtu.be/H2l3pK42f38?t=2913) at Svelte Russia Meetup #1.
{% endAside %}
```

Reviewer: You may see me break a tangent or two. This helps to break up long text runs.

> Svelte implements reactivity in a way that [doesn't use Virtual DOM](https://svelte.dev/blog/virtual-dom-is-pure-overhead), which makes it less resource-intensive. [Svelte's approach removes unused functions from production bundles](https://svelte.dev/blog/frameworks-without-the-framework) because the code implementing them isn't generated by the compiler if the functions aren't used. Unused code is removed during compilation, resulting in smaller bundles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Svelte implements reactivity in a way that [doesn't use Virtual DOM](https://svelte.dev/blog/virtual-dom-is-pure-overhead), which makes it less resource-intensive. [Svelte's approach removes unused functions from production bundles](https://svelte.dev/blog/frameworks-without-the-framework) because the code implementing them isn't generated by the compiler if the functions aren't used. Unused code is removed during compilation, resulting in smaller bundles. This may help reduce [Total Blocking Time (TBT)](https://web.dev/tbt/) during page startup.
```

> Reduced bundle sizes may positively affect metrics such as [Total Blocking Time (TBT)](https://web.dev/tbt/). However, the results of our CWV optimization efforts may be compelling to those using popular frontend JavaScript frameworks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I think tagging on the TBT bit to the previous paragraph makes this flow a bit smoother.

## Tracking performance metrics

> Before optimizing CWV, it's helpful to [evaluate performance in the field](https://web.dev/vitals-field-measurement-best-practices/). Prior to the introduction of CWV, other metrics such as [First Contentful Paint (FCP)](https://web.dev/fcp/) were monitored and presented in an internal performance dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before optimizing CWV, it's helpful to [evaluate performance in the field](https://web.dev/vitals-field-measurement-best-practices/). Prior to the introduction of CWV, other metrics such as [First Contentful Paint (FCP)](https://web.dev/fcp/) were monitored and presented in our internal performance dashboard.
```

Reviewer: Small change, but I think first person is OK here.

Our metrics collection script was modified to collect CWV values and transmit them to our performance dashboard for visualization. In line with Google's recommendations, our script uses [PerformanceObserver API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceObserver) to obtain metrics, which is part of [our universal frontend "Platform"](https://github.com/mail-core) inside Mail.ru.

> The dashboard's CWV monitoring showed the following metrics for users (mean values for the week of 15–21 March 2021):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dashboard displayed the following metrics for users (mean values for the week of 15-21 March 2021):
```

> The metrics collection mechanism was modified to collect CWV values and represent them in our performance dashboard. In line with Google's recommendations, our performance tracking system uses [PerformanceObserver API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceObserver) to obtain metrics, which is part of [our universal frontend "Platform"](https://github.com/mail-core) inside Mail.ru.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our metrics collection script was modified to collect CWV values and transmit them to our performance dashboard for visualization. In line with Google's recommendations, our script uses [PerformanceObserver API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceObserver) to obtain metrics, which is part of [our universal frontend "Platform"](https://github.com/mail-core) inside Mail.ru.
```

<div class="w-table-wrapper">
  <table>
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th colspan="2" width="40%">Metrics group name</th>

>         <th colspan="3" width="30%">CWV</th>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <th colspan="3" width="30%">Core Web Vitals</th>
```

        <th colspan="3" width="30%">Other Web Vitals</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td colspan="2">Metric name</td>
        <td>LCP</td>
        <td>FID</td>
        <td>CLS</td>
        <td>FCP</td>
        <td>TBT</td>
        <td>TTI</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>

>         <td rowspan="3">Share of users in accordance with CWV thresholds</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <td rowspan="3">Share of users in accordance with Core Web Vitals thresholds</td>
```

        <td>good</td>
        <td>52%</td>
        <td>92%</td>
        <td>33%</td>
        <td>35%</td>
        <td>42%</td>
        <td>43%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>needs-improvement</td>
        <td>19%</td>
        <td>5%</td>
        <td>23%</td>
        <td>38%</td>
        <td>16%</td>
        <td>25%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>poor</td>
        <td>29%</td>
        <td>3%</td>
        <td>44%</td>
        <td>27%</td>
        <td>42%</td>
        <td>32%</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>

>     <caption>CWV metrics for the week of 15–21 March 2021</caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <caption>Metrics for the week of 15-21 March 2021</caption>
```

  </table>
</div>
 
<figure class="w-figure">

>   {% Img src="image/dB6B4Sr8kaaT0KZujRBFC303oFR2/ZL7y3ZCpbMcqlOv9mLpV.png", alt="CWV metrics before optimization show roughly 1/3 of users in the poor bucket.", width="800", height="479" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  {% Img src="image/dB6B4Sr8kaaT0KZujRBFC303oFR2/ZL7y3ZCpbMcqlOv9mLpV.png", alt="Core Web Vitals before optimization show roughly 1/3 of users in the poor bucket.", width="800", height="479" %}
```

  <figcaption>Web Vitals values before the improvements.</figcaption>
</figure> 

> ## Improving CWV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Improving Core Web Vitals
```

>   {% Img src="image/dB6B4Sr8kaaT0KZujRBFC303oFR2/ZL7y3ZCpbMcqlOv9mLpV.png", alt="Web Vitals values before the improvements.", width="800", height="479" %}

Reviewer: This is _really_ hard to do in alt text with these types of images, but anything you can do to make the alt text more descriptive (while not running _too_ long) will help.

> While plenty of guidance exists for improving CWV, every project has unique challenges. For the Mail.ru home page, the following opportunities were identified:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While plenty of guidance exists for improving Core Web Vitals, every project has unique challenges. For the Mail.ru home page, the following opportunities were identified:
```

> - Implementing placeholders for ad banners to reduce CLS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Implementing placeholders for ad banners to reduce [CLS](https://web.dev/cls/).
```

> - Use Server-Side Rendering (SSR) to reduce [Largest Contentful Paint (LCP](/lcp/)).

Reviewer 2: Small typo with parenthesis position:
[Largest Contentful Paint (LCP **)** ](/lcp/)~~)~~

Author: Wow....you have eagle eyes, Denis :-)
Well spotted! Aaaaand it's fixed now.

> - Use Server-Side Rendering (SSR) to reduce [Largest Contentful Paint (LCP)](/lcp/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Using server-side rendering (SSR) to reduce [Largest Contentful Paint (LCP)](/lcp/).
```

> While plenty of guidance exists for improving CWV, every project is unique in its requirements and challenges. For the Mail.ru home page, the following opportunities were identified:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While plenty of guidance exists for improving CWV, every project has unique challenges. For the Mail.ru home page, the following opportunities were identified:
```

When implementing placeholders, the first step is to determine the dimensions of the content that will replace them. Luckily, the desktop version of Mail.ru home page has strictly documented sizes for ads. After talking with the design team, SVG-animated UI skeletons were used as placeholders as [they reduce the perceived load time of the content](https://uxdesign.cc/what-you-should-know-about-skeleton-screens-a820c45a571a).
 
{% Aside 'caution' %}
SVG animations are not supported in Internet Explorer 11, consider using CSS if legacy browser support is essential to your application.
{% endAside %}

## The return of SSR

To ease the transition from Fest to Svelte, we incrementally rewrote the existing project rather than start over. By March 2021, we had migrated most of the frontend to Svelte, and eventually brought SSR to our production application after triaging and fixing backend performance issues.

{% Aside %}

> SSR was not used for the entire application, as [it can be an expensive process](https://malloc.fi/performance-cost-of-server-side-rendered-react-node-js) that can delay [Time to First Byte (TTFB)](https://web.dev/ttfb/), which [indirectly affects LCP](https://web.dev/optimize-lcp/#optimize-your-server). We decided to use SSR for crucial content that the user will see on initial render, and offload rendering of hidden content on the client. At the moment, Mail.ru is experimenting with [Islands Architecture](https://jasonformat.com/islands-architecture/) to see if further performance gains can be had.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SSR was not used for the entire application, as [it can be an expensive process](https://malloc.fi/performance-cost-of-server-side-rendered-react-node-js) that can delay [Time to First Byte (TTFB)](https://web.dev/ttfb/), which [may affect LCP](https://web.dev/optimize-lcp/#optimize-your-server). We decided to use SSR for crucial content that the user will see on initial render, and offload rendering of hidden content on the client. At the moment, Mail.ru is experimenting with [Islands Architecture](https://jasonformat.com/islands-architecture/) to see if further performance gains can be had.
```

Reviewer: Super tiny nit and I should have caught it (and other stuff) in content review, but "indirectly" doesn't feel like the right word here.

{% endAside %}

> After implementing SSR, the cause of regression in CLS metrics was discovered that initially went unnoticed: the news block was not inserted at the moment of rendering the first content on the page. There was a delay between the initial painting of the page and the insertion of news. This behaviour resulted in an ad skeleton shift, which worsened CLS metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After implementing SSR, the cause of regression in CLS metrics was discovered that initially went unnoticed: the news section was not inserted at the moment of rendering the first content on the page. There was a delay between the initial painting of the page markup provided by the server and the insertion of news section on the client. This behaviour resulted in an ad skeleton shift, which worsened CLS metrics.
```

Reviewer: This needed to be a bit clearer. Reject it if it's inaccurate, but that's my read on the situation.

 
Although Chrome's DevTools showed Layout Shift events, we couldn't find the reason for it at first. Though SSR itself wasn't the problem, it helped in discovering the solution later on. Fixing the code responsible for the painting delay improved layout stability of the news component.

<figure class="w-figure">

>   {% Img src="image/dB6B4Sr8kaaT0KZujRBFC303oFR2/X5ZgXiNPGEqz6oOlvY5v.png", alt="Finding the news painting problem with JavaScript disabled.", width="800", height="443" %}

Reviewer: These `alt`s should be more descriptive. I'm not sure this paints enough of a picture for people who can't see the image.

  <figcaption>Finding the news painting problem with JavaScript disabled.</figcaption>
</figure> 

<figure class="w-figure">

>   {% Img src="image/dB6B4Sr8kaaT0KZujRBFC303oFR2/aXnxfjZCk4oZN8s6ag5o.png", alt="Fixing the news painting problem with JavaScript disabled.", width="800", height="448" %}

Reviewer: Same as above.

  <figcaption>Fixing the news painting problem with JavaScript disabled.</figcaption>
</figure> 

Another effect SSR can have on CLS is the movement components before and after hydration. We encountered this on the mobile version in particular, which led to further layout shifts and negative impacts on CLS, which required special attention to be paid to hydrated component markup. One recurring solution to this problem was to transfer as much display logic from JavaScript to CSS whenever possible.

## Code splitting and unused polyfills

> To improve the perceived page load speed, work was required to decrease LCP and FID values. One way to achieve this is through [code splitting](https://web.dev/codelab-code-splitting/). Our team, in addition to the Mail.ru home page itself, is developing a widget for portal navigation. It is currently embedded in [a large number of VK projects](https://vk.company/en/projects/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To improve the perceived page load speed, work was required to decrease LCP and FID values. One way to achieve this is through [code splitting](https://web.dev/codelab-code-splitting/). In addition to the Mail.ru home page itself, our team is developing a widget for portal navigation. It is currently embedded in [many of our parent company's projects](https://vk.company/en/projects/).
```

Reviewer: This flows better, and is based on my reading of [this Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VK_(company)).

 
For historical reasons, the widget is inserted at the very beginning of the page as a synchronously loading script. The share of polyfills in this script grew over time. To limit the negative performance effects of loading these polyfills, we implemented code splitting for both modern and legacy browsers.

> We decided against the [module/nomodule pattern](https://philipwalton.com/articles/deploying-es2015-code-in-production-today/) for loading JavaScript bundles for modern or legacy browsers, as the `<script>` element's `type="module"` attribute didn't target browsers that were modern enough for our needs. To address this, Mail.ru uses an in-house tool for identifying modern browser versions on the backend, and can adapt to those browsers accordingly. We settled on this approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We decided against the [`module`/`nomodule` pattern](https://philipwalton.com/articles/deploying-es2015-code-in-production-today/) for loading JavaScript bundles for modern or legacy browsers, as the `<script>` element's [`type="module"` attribute](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules) didn't target browsers that were modern enough for our needs. To address this, Mail.ru uses an in-house tool for identifying modern browser versions on the backend, and can adapt to those browsers accordingly.
```

 
{% Aside %}
The [Browserslist Useragent](https://github.com/browserslist/browserslist-useragent) package is a publicly available alternative to custom tooling for comparing a project's `.browserslistrc` to the User-Agent string in an application backend. However, our team strongly recommends considering using [User-Agent Client Hints](https://github.com/WICG/ua-client-hints#differential-serving) (for example, [Sec-CH-UA header](https://web.dev/user-agent-client-hints/#user-agent-response-and-request-headers), as Mail.ru does in our in-house tool.
{% endAside %}
 
Once browsers could be identified in the backend, we could implement code splitting for modern and legacy browsers. This resulted in a 43.3% reduction of the synchronously-loaded JavaScript widget for modern browsers. Also, this practice has been applied to some other portal scripts.

> In addition to bundle size reduction and positive effects on CWV, code splitting improves the developer experience, as a 3.5% share of our users use legacy browsers. Since this share of users is on a downward trend, our team decided to rebuild the process of implementation of new features in the widget. This allows developers to use the latest browser APIs despite the bloat that polyfills introduce for users of legacy browsers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to bundle size reduction and positive effects on Core Web Vitals, code splitting improves the developer experience, as a 3.5% share of our users use legacy browsers. Since this share of users is on a downward trend, our team decided to rebuild the process of implementation of new features in the widget. This allows developers to use the latest browser APIs despite the bloat that polyfills introduce for users of legacy browsers.
```

## Results

> After the optimization effort, we observed the mean values for the week of 24–30 May 2021 in our field data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the optimization effort, we observed the mean values for the week of 24-30 May 2021 in our field data:
```

Reviewer: I wish I would have caught this earlier, _but_—we try to avoid averages in data, as they don't represent any one session. Percentiles are better at communicating thresholds, anyway. Fun read: https://www.igvita.com/2016/01/12/the-average-page-is-a-myth/

<div class="w-table-wrapper">
  <table>
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th colspan="2" width="40%">Metrics group name</th>

>         <th colspan="3" width="30%">CWV</th>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <th colspan="3" width="30%">Core Web Vitals</th>
```

        <th colspan="3" width="30%">Other Web Vitals</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td colspan="2">Metric name</td>
        <td>LCP</td>
        <td>FID</td>
        <td>CLS</td>
        <td>FCP</td>
        <td>TBT</td>
        <td>TTI</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>

>         <td rowspan="3">Share of users in accordance with CWV thresholds</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <td rowspan="3">Share of users in accordance with Core Web Vitals thresholds</td>
```

        <td>good</td>
        <td>58% (+6%)</td>
        <td>93% (+1%)</td>
        <td>93% (+60%)</td>
        <td>43% (+8%)</td>
        <td>49% (+7%)</td>
        <td>51% (+8%)</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>needs-improvement</td>
        <td>18%</td>
        <td>4%</td>
        <td>3%</td>
        <td>34%</td>
        <td>17%</td>
        <td>24%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>poor</td>
        <td>24%</td>
        <td>3%</td>
        <td>4%</td>
        <td>23%</td>
        <td>34%</td>
        <td>25%</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>

>     <caption>CWV metrics for the week of 24–30 March 2021</caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <caption>Metrics for the week of 24-30 March 2021</caption>
```

  </table>
</div>

<figure class="w-figure">

>   {% Img src="image/dB6B4Sr8kaaT0KZujRBFC303oFR2/7FIE2St8w6EEowUIqV9K.png", alt="Comparison of Web Vitals before and after (change in 'good' group is shown in brackets).", width="800", height="376" %}

Reviewer: This `alt` needs to be punched up so it's more descriptive.

  <figcaption>Comparison of Web Vitals before and after (change in 'good' group is shown in brackets).</figcaption>
</figure> 

The graphs below show changes in web page performance metrics values according to the "Platform". Note the two important dates on the graphs:
 
- 23 March 2021: the release of iteration with the last page sections migrated to Svelte;

> - 19 April 2021: the release of iteration with returned SSR and layout modified to correct CLS CWV.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 19 April 2021: the release of iteration with returned SSR and layout modified to correct CLS regressions.
```

> - 23 March 2021: the release of iteration with the last web page blocks migrated to Svelte;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 23 March 2021: the release of iteration with the last page sections migrated to Svelte;
```

The decrease in values from May 1 to May 10 is due to May holidays in Russia.

<figure class="w-figure">
  {% Img src="image/dB6B4Sr8kaaT0KZujRBFC303oFR2/8wq9d0uj3EJp5vK6kI49.png", alt="LCP from March to 1 June 2021 showing small improvments over time.", width="800", height="344" %}

>   <figcaption>LCP CWV graph in 'Platform': 16 March to 1 June 2021.</figcaption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <figcaption>LCP graph in 'Platform': 16 March to 1 June 2021.</figcaption>
```

>   {% Img src="image/dB6B4Sr8kaaT0KZujRBFC303oFR2/8wq9d0uj3EJp5vK6kI49.png", alt="LCP CWV graph in 'Platform': 16 March to 1 June 2021.", width="800", height="344" %}

Reviewer: These graphs are pretty hard to describe in alt text :\ I think we should keep them, but hopefully the above table is helpful context.

</figure> 

<figure class="w-figure">
  {% Img src="image/dB6B4Sr8kaaT0KZujRBFC303oFR2/bxANzHIw78TvdS1RFyWG.png", alt="FID from 16 March to 1 June 2021 showing tiny improvements on a high level.", width="800", height="345" %}

>   <figcaption>FID CWV graph in 'Platform': 16 March to 1 June 2021.</figcaption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <figcaption>FID graph in 'Platform': 16 March to 1 June 2021.</figcaption>
```

</figure> 

<figure class="w-figure">
  {% Img src="image/dB6B4Sr8kaaT0KZujRBFC303oFR2/7woJXpiHLZU3l7PCdspi.png", alt="CLS from 16 March to 1 June 2021 showing huge improvements starting at April 23rd.", width="800", height="344" %}

>   <figcaption>CLS CWV graph in 'Platform': 16 March to 1 June 2021.</figcaption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <figcaption>CLS graph in 'Platform': 16 March to 1 June 2021.</figcaption>
```

</figure> 

> CWV results obtained using the "Platform" are in line with the growth of metric values in [Chrome UX Report (CrUX)](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-user-experience-report).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Results obtained using the "Platform" are in line with the growth of metric values in [Chrome UX Report (CrUX)](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-user-experience-report).
```

  <figcaption>CLS metric change in CrUX in 2021.</figcaption>
</figure>
 
A comparison of mean user session duration values a week before the roll-out of initial improvements and a week after the roll-out shows 2.7% growth. Moreover, there is an overall significant increase in conversion in most sections of the page. In particular, conversions to the Mail.ru email app increased by 11.6%, the conversion of the news section increased by 13.5%.
 
<div class="w-stats">
  <div class="w-stat">
    <p class="w-stat__figure">181<sub class="w-stat__sub">%</sub></p>
    <p class="w-stat__desc">Boost of share of good CLS threshold</p>
  </div>
  <div class="w-stat">
    <p class="w-stat__figure">2.7<sub class="w-stat__sub">%</sub></p>
    <p class="w-stat__desc">Higher mean session duration</p>
  </div>
  <div class="w-stat">
    <p class="w-stat__figure">13.5<sub class="w-stat__sub">%</sub></p>
    <p class="w-stat__desc">Increase of news section conversion rate</p>
  </div>
</div>
 
The most unexpected result we got was a 17.4% increase in the Click-Through Rate (CTR) of the marketing banner (its rendering time was significantly reduced by the introduction of SSR and preload tags).
 

> {% Aside 'caution' %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Aside %}
```

Reviewer: Not sure this rises to the level of a `'caution'`, more that it's explaining an unintended side effect of the optimizations you made. But it definitely should still be in an aside!

> To be honest, the conversion rate of some sections decreased after our optimization efforts. The search section in particular saw a decrease of 6.7%. Our team associates this with a change in the rendering of the page (earlier this component was one of the first to appear). The problem was solved by introducing new product features into this section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An unintended consequence of our work was that we saw a decrease in the conversion rate of some sections on the page. The search section in particular saw a decrease of 6.7%. Our team associates this with a change in the rendering of the page, as earlier on, this component was one of the first to render. We were able to reverse this decrease by introducing new product features into this section.
```

{% endAside %}
 

> However, after analyzing the rest of the sections on the page, we see a significant increase in the vast majority of blocks. In particular, even for such sections as Weather and Coronavirus - which are not key on our page - we see an increase in conversion by 9.6% and 9.5%, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After analyzing the rest of the sections on the page, we noticed significant performance improvement in the vast majority of them. Even for sections such as Weather and Coronavirus&mdash;which are not key on our page&mdash;we see an increase in conversion by 9.6% and 9.5%, respectively.
```

## Conclusion
 

> The main challenge of improving CWV is that the work may be prolonged. You should regularly monitor changes in metrics over time and ensure that all new product features avoid regression in CWV metrics. To achieve this, we applied CWV metrics in our [performance budget](https://web.dev/performance-budgets-101/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Improving CWV is challenging in that the work involved may be prolonged. You should regularly monitor changes in metrics over time and ensure that all new product features don't cause regressions in CWV metrics. To achieve this, we applied CWV metrics in our [performance budget](https://web.dev/performance-budgets-101/). 
```

> Improving CWV is challenging in that the work involved may be prolonged. You should regularly monitor changes in metrics over time and ensure that all new product features don't cause regressions in CWV metrics. To achieve this, we applied CWV metrics in our [performance budget](https://web.dev/performance-budgets-101/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Improving performance is challenging in that the work involved may be prolonged. You should regularly monitor changes in metrics over time and ensure that all new product features don't cause regressions in Core Web Vitals. To achieve this, we monitor changes in Core Web Vitals in our [performance budget](https://web.dev/performance-budgets-101/). 
```

> Moreover, we discussed the importance of CWV with all members of our product team, from managers and designers to testers and QA. Each team member should be aware of performance metrics and be empowered to improve them. Also, we integrate CWV optimization objectives into our business processes. Success by providing a high-quality user experience is only possible through a cooperative effort by all team members.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most important, we stressed the importance of CWV with all members of our product team, from managers and designers to testers and QA. Each team member should be aware of performance metrics and be empowered to improve them. We also incorporate CWV optimization objectives into our business processes in a regular cadence. Success by providing a high-quality user experience is only possible through a cooperative effort by all team members.
```

> Most important, we stressed the importance of CWV with all members of our product team, from managers and designers to testers and QA. Each team member should be aware of performance metrics and be empowered to improve them. We also incorporate CWV optimization objectives into our business processes in a regular cadence. Success by providing a high-quality user experience is only possible through a cooperative effort by all team members.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most important, we stressed the importance of Core Web Vitals with all members of our product team, from managers and designers to testers and QA. Each team member should be aware of performance metrics and be empowered to improve them. We also incorporate performance optimization objectives into our business processes in a regular cadence. Success by providing a high-quality user experience is only possible through a cooperative effort by all team members.
```
